tarbell/docs/build.rst, before:

=================
Building projects
=================

Editing templates
-----------------

Tarbell projects consist of simple HTML pages that may use Jinja templating features.

If you create a file in your project directory called ``chapter1.html``, you'll be able to
preview the file at http://localhost:5000/chapter1.html and publish to the same file. This
file can be straight up HTML, or it can inherit from a base template.

Files and directories that start with an underscore (``_``) or a dot (``.``) will not be 
rendered by the preview server or included in the generated static HTML.

Understanding the base template
-------------------------------

Base templates live in your projects ``_base`` directory, and use Jinja templating features to 
make your life easier. Develop base templates to use for projects that need to share boilerplate 
code like advertising, analytics, and common page elements. Tarbell projects are intended to
inherit from base templates.

Here's a simple ``_base/_base.html``

.. code-block:: django

  <html>
    <head>
      <title>{{ title }}</title>
      {% block css %}
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/style.css" />
      {% endblock css %}
    </head>
    <body>
      {% block content %}{% endblock content %}
    </body>
  </html>

To inherit from this template extend the base template in ``index.html`` or other project files you
create. Now, all your ``index.html`` needs to contain is:

.. code-block:: django

  {% extends '_base.html' %}

  {% block content %}
  <h1>{{ title }} </h1>
  {{ content|markdown }}
  {% endblock content %}

You might notice we're using the ``|markdown`` filter. Base templates also define filters. See 
building base templates for more.

If a base template defines a static file or template (e.g. ``_base/style.css``), it will be available
relative to the project's base path (e.g. http://127.0.0.1:5000/style.css). If a project defines 
a file with the same name, the project's version will be used instead.

See the basic Tarbell template for a simple implementation of a base template.

Template inheritance: Override files from base by copying to your project directory
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Any file in the base template can be overridden in your project files.

For example, if your base template includes a sample ``_base/_nav.html``, you can create a file named 
``_nav.html`` in your project directory to override 

This works for all files, static or templates.

Files prefixed with underscores (``_``) will not be generated or published
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

To suppress a file from publishing, use a filename like ``_filename.txt``.

Configuring projects
--------------------

Project configuration is kept in the `tarbell_config.py` file in your project's base directory:

.. code-block:: python

  # Short project name
  NAME = "nellie-bly"

  # Descriptive title of project
  TITLE = "The Story of Nellie Bly"

  # Google spreadsheet key
  SPREADSHEET_KEY = "0Ak3IIavLYTovdC1qMFo5UDEwcUhQZmdZbkk4WW1sYUE"

  # Create JSON data at ./data.json
  CREATE_JSON = True


  # S3 bucket configuration
  S3_BUCKETS = {
      "staging": "projects.beta.myorg.tld/profiles/nellie-bly/",
      "production": "projects.myorg.tld/profiles/nellie-bly/",
  }

  # Default template variables
  DEFAULT_CONTEXT = {
      'name': 'nellie-bly',
      'title': 'The Story of Nellie Bly'
  }

``TITLE`` and ``NAME`` are required and describe the project.

If specified, ``SPREADSHEET_KEY`` will be used as data source if Google Spreadsheets is configured.

If specified, ``S3_BUCKETS`` should be a Python dict consisting of ``targetname:targeturl`` pairs.

If ``True``, ``CREATE_JSON`` will create a file called ``data.json`` for AJAX data and context loading.

If specified, ``DEFAULT_CONTEXT`` will provide context variables to the template. The default context
is dictionary of ``key``->``value`` pairs to provide to the template. The ``value`` may be any Python
object that can be represented as a Jinja template variable.

Using context variables
-----------------------

Template data comes from Google spreadsheets or tarbell.py's ``DEFAULT_CONTEXT``.

This simple ``DEFAULT_CONTEXT`` shows many of the key template features:

.. code-block:: python

  DEFAULT_CONTEXT = {
      'name': 'nellie-bly',
      'title': 'The Story of Nellie Bly',
      'font_size': '20px',
      # Nested dictionary
      'photos': {
          'intro': {
              'url': 'img/bly01.jpg',
              'caption': 'A caption',
          }
      },
      # Nested list
      'timeline': [
          {'year': '1902', 'description': 'Description...'},
          {'year': '1907', 'description': 'Description...'},
          {'year': '1909', 'description': 'Description...'},
      ],
    }
  }

To print the title in your template, use `{{ title }}`:

.. code-block:: django

  <h1>{{ title }}</h1>

Address a nested dictionary:

.. code-block:: django

  <img src="{{ photos.intro.url }}" alt="{{ photos.intro.caption }}" />
  <aside>{{ photos.intro.caption }}</aside>

Access a list of data:

.. code-block:: django

  <ul>
    {% for year in timeline %}
    <li><strong>{{ year }}</strong>: {{ description }}</li>
    {% endfor %}
  </ul>

Where can context variables be used?
------------------------------------

Context variables can be used in HTML, CSS, and Javascript files. If the text file causes a Jinja
template error (which can happen if the file has Jinja-like markers), the file will be served as static
and the preview server will log an error.

This means that CSS and Javascript files may include variables. ``style.css`` might include:

.. code-block:: css

  #content { font-size: {{ font_size }}; }

Similarly, a Javascript file could include:

.. code-block:: javascript

  var data = {{ photos|tojson }}
  console.log(photos.intro.url);

Use this feature with care! Missing variables could easily break your CSS or Javascript.

Anatomy of a project directory
------------------------------

When you run ``tarbell newproject``, a number of new files and folders are created, many of them with
special significance. Here's a rundown of what they all do.

**Files in the root directory:**

index.html
  The first page people will see when they visit your project. This is typically where most of
  the content lives, and is probably where you want to start editing.

tarbell_config.py
  The settings and context for this specific project, described in more detail in the
  `Configuring projects section above <#configuring-projects>`_.


**Files in the _base/ directory:**

Keep in mind that you rarely want to edit the files in the ``_base/`` directory - if you want
to change something, copy the file to the root directory and make the change there. If a file of the
same name exists in both the root directory and the ``_base/`` directory, Tarbell will rely on the
one in the root directory.

The only time you should edit the files in the ``_base/`` directory is when 
`you'd like to create or update the base templates themselves <base_templates.html>`_.

_base.html
  The base page template, containing ``<head>`` and ``<body>`` tags, and pointing to many of the Javascript
  and CSS files that will be loaded for each page in the project.

_footer.html
  The partial template containing anything you'd like to appear consistently in the footer at the
  bottom of each page.

_nav.html
  The partial template containing the nav bar that runs along the top of the page.

_spreadsheet.xlsx
  This is the template file that `Google spreadsheets will be based upon
  <google_spreadsheets.html>`_. Unlike most other files in ``_base/``, overriding it in your root
  directory won't do anything. However, if you want future projects to be created with a different
  spreadsheet template, you can edit this file and commit it to a repository you control; learn more
  about this feature in the `Developing base templates <base_templates.html>`_ section.

base.css
  The base CSS file imported by the base template for this project. Override this file in your root
  directory if you'd like to make CSS changes.

base.py
  A Python file that contains a default set of template filters for use in this project. Override
  this file in your root directory if you'd like to alter the behavior of these filters, or add your
  own. If you'd like to make your changes available to other projects, check out the `Developing
  base templates <base_templates.html>`_ section.

favicon.ico
  Favicons are `small logos for websites <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Favicon>`_ that typically
  appear next to a website's name in a browser tab. Change this file in order to change the logo
  associated with your site in users' browser tabs, though keep in mind that favicons have
  `a number of rules <http://www.w3.org/2005/10/howto-favicon>`_ about how they should be
  constructed.

favicon-preview.ico
  This is the icon for the in-development version of a site that appears next to the website's name
  in a browser tab, following the same rules as for favicon.ico above. The key difference is that
  this icon is meant to remind developers and testers that they're not looking at a live site.

index.html
  This is a fallback version of the project's front page, in case the ``index.html`` file in the root
  directory is removed or renamed. It begins life as an exact copy of the root directory's 
  ``index.html``.

Commit message:

refine language to specify that the anatomy of a project is for the default open source base template

tarbell/docs/build.rst, after:

=================
Building projects
=================

Editing templates
-----------------

Tarbell projects consist of simple HTML pages that may use Jinja templating features.

If you create a file in your project directory called ``chapter1.html``, you'll be able to
preview the file at http://localhost:5000/chapter1.html and publish to the same file. This
file can be straight up HTML, or it can inherit from a base template.

Files and directories that start with an underscore (``_``) or a dot (``.``) will not be 
rendered by the preview server or included in the generated static HTML.

Understanding the base template
-------------------------------

Base templates live in your projects ``_base`` directory, and use Jinja templating features to 
make your life easier. Develop base templates to use for projects that need to share boilerplate 
code like advertising, analytics, and common page elements. Tarbell projects are intended to
inherit from base templates.

Here's a simple ``_base/_base.html``

.. code-block:: django

  <html>
    <head>
      <title>{{ title }}</title>
      {% block css %}
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/style.css" />
      {% endblock css %}
    </head>
    <body>
      {% block content %}{% endblock content %}
    </body>
  </html>

To inherit from this template extend the base template in ``index.html`` or other project files you
create. Now, all your ``index.html`` needs to contain is:

.. code-block:: django

  {% extends '_base.html' %}

  {% block content %}
  <h1>{{ title }} </h1>
  {{ content|markdown }}
  {% endblock content %}

You might notice we're using the ``|markdown`` filter. Base templates also define filters. See 
building base templates for more.

If a base template defines a static file or template (e.g. ``_base/style.css``), it will be available
relative to the project's base path (e.g. http://127.0.0.1:5000/style.css). If a project defines 
a file with the same name, the project's version will be used instead.

See the basic Tarbell template for a simple implementation of a base template.

Template inheritance: Override files from base by copying to your project directory
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Any file in the base template can be overridden in your project files.

For example, if your base template includes a sample ``_base/_nav.html``, you can create a file named 
``_nav.html`` in your project directory to override 

This works for all files, static or templates.

Files prefixed with underscores (``_``) will not be generated or published
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

To suppress a file from publishing, use a filename like ``_filename.txt``.

Configuring projects
--------------------

Project configuration is kept in the `tarbell_config.py` file in your project's base directory:

.. code-block:: python

  # Short project name
  NAME = "nellie-bly"

  # Descriptive title of project
  TITLE = "The Story of Nellie Bly"

  # Google spreadsheet key
  SPREADSHEET_KEY = "0Ak3IIavLYTovdC1qMFo5UDEwcUhQZmdZbkk4WW1sYUE"

  # Create JSON data at ./data.json
  CREATE_JSON = True


  # S3 bucket configuration
  S3_BUCKETS = {
      "staging": "projects.beta.myorg.tld/profiles/nellie-bly/",
      "production": "projects.myorg.tld/profiles/nellie-bly/",
  }

  # Default template variables
  DEFAULT_CONTEXT = {
      'name': 'nellie-bly',
      'title': 'The Story of Nellie Bly'
  }

``TITLE`` and ``NAME`` are required and describe the project.

If specified, ``SPREADSHEET_KEY`` will be used as data source if Google Spreadsheets is configured.

If specified, ``S3_BUCKETS`` should be a Python dict consisting of ``targetname:targeturl`` pairs.

If ``True``, ``CREATE_JSON`` will create a file called ``data.json`` for AJAX data and context loading.

If specified, ``DEFAULT_CONTEXT`` will provide context variables to the template. The default context
is dictionary of ``key``->``value`` pairs to provide to the template. The ``value`` may be any Python
object that can be represented as a Jinja template variable.

Using context variables
-----------------------

Template data comes from Google spreadsheets or tarbell.py's ``DEFAULT_CONTEXT``.

This simple ``DEFAULT_CONTEXT`` shows many of the key template features:

.. code-block:: python

  DEFAULT_CONTEXT = {
      'name': 'nellie-bly',
      'title': 'The Story of Nellie Bly',
      'font_size': '20px',
      # Nested dictionary
      'photos': {
          'intro': {
              'url': 'img/bly01.jpg',
              'caption': 'A caption',
          }
      },
      # Nested list
      'timeline': [
          {'year': '1902', 'description': 'Description...'},
          {'year': '1907', 'description': 'Description...'},
          {'year': '1909', 'description': 'Description...'},
      ],
    }
  }

To print the title in your template, use `{{ title }}`:

.. code-block:: django

  <h1>{{ title }}</h1>

Address a nested dictionary:

.. code-block:: django

  <img src="{{ photos.intro.url }}" alt="{{ photos.intro.caption }}" />
  <aside>{{ photos.intro.caption }}</aside>

Access a list of data:

.. code-block:: django

  <ul>
    {% for year in timeline %}
    <li><strong>{{ year }}</strong>: {{ description }}</li>
    {% endfor %}
  </ul>

Where can context variables be used?
------------------------------------

Context variables can be used in HTML, CSS, and Javascript files. If the text file causes a Jinja
template error (which can happen if the file has Jinja-like markers), the file will be served as static
and the preview server will log an error.

This means that CSS and Javascript files may include variables. ``style.css`` might include:

.. code-block:: css

  #content { font-size: {{ font_size }}; }

Similarly, a Javascript file could include:

.. code-block:: javascript

  var data = {{ photos|tojson }}
  console.log(photos.intro.url);

Use this feature with care! Missing variables could easily break your CSS or Javascript.

Anatomy of a project directory
------------------------------

When you run ``tarbell newproject`` with the default base template, a number of new files and
folders are created, many of them with special significance. Details may vary for other base templates,
but they're likely to have many similar files and concepts.

Here's a rundown of what they all do.

**Files in the root directory:**

index.html
  The first page people will see when they visit your project. This is typically where most of
  the content lives, and is probably where you want to start editing.

tarbell_config.py
  The settings and context for this specific project, described in more detail in the
  `Configuring projects section above <#configuring-projects>`_.


**Files in the _base/ directory:**

Keep in mind that you rarely want to edit the files in the ``_base/`` directory - if you want
to change something, copy the file to the root directory and make the change there. If a file of the
same name exists in both the root directory and the ``_base/`` directory, Tarbell will rely on the
one in the root directory.

The only time you should edit the files in the ``_base/`` directory is when 
`you'd like to create or update the base templates themselves <base_templates.html>`_.

_base.html
  The base page template, containing ``<head>`` and ``<body>`` tags, and pointing to many of the Javascript
  and CSS files that will be loaded for each page in the project.

_footer.html
  The partial template containing anything you'd like to appear consistently in the footer at the
  bottom of each page.

_nav.html
  The partial template containing the nav bar that runs along the top of the page.

_spreadsheet.xlsx
  This is the template file that `Google spreadsheets will be based upon
  <google_spreadsheets.html>`_. Unlike most other files in ``_base/``, overriding it in your root
  directory won't do anything. However, if you want future projects to be created with a different
  spreadsheet template, you can edit this file and commit it to a repository you control; learn more
  about this feature in the `Developing base templates <base_templates.html>`_ section.

base.css
  The base CSS file imported by the base template for this project. Override this file in your root
  directory if you'd like to make CSS changes.

base.py
  A Python file that contains a default set of template filters for use in this project. Override
  this file in your root directory if you'd like to alter the behavior of these filters, or add your
  own. If you'd like to make your changes available to other projects, check out the `Developing
  base templates <base_templates.html>`_ section.

favicon.ico
  Favicons are `small logos for websites <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Favicon>`_ that typically
  appear next to a website's name in a browser tab. Change this file in order to change the logo
  associated with your site in users' browser tabs, though keep in mind that favicons have
  `a number of rules <http://www.w3.org/2005/10/howto-favicon>`_ about how they should be
  constructed.

favicon-preview.ico
  This is the icon for the in-development version of a site that appears next to the website's name
  in a browser tab, following the same rules as for favicon.ico above. The key difference is that
  this icon is meant to remind developers and testers that they're not looking at a live site.

index.html
  This is a fallback version of the project's front page, in case the ``index.html`` file in the root
  directory is removed or renamed. It begins life as an exact copy of the root directory's 
  ``index.html``.
